# ai-case-study

## Overview and Origin
Company: UiPath

Founded: UiPath was founded and incorporated in the year 2005 

Founded By: The company was founded in Romania by Daniel Dines and Marius Tîrcă.

According to a blog on the UiPath website, Daniel Dines came up with the idea of UiPath to "help humans reduce the time and stress that result from menial, repetitive administrative tasks." Him and his partner recruited a team of people and they began working as a 10-person team out of an apartment in Romania to try and bring this idea to life.

When doing my research I could not find how they secured their funding in the beginning. I found the company's history of funding going back to August 2015 when they received $1.6 million in initial seed funding from a few different venture capital groups. The funding and investment they received grew exponentially. In 2018 they raised $225 million and received a $3 billion valuation. In the last round of fundraising, they brought in $750 million and they were given a $35 billion post-money valuation. Between August 2015 and February 2021, the company received a total of $1,952,600,000 in funding.

## Business Activities
The company is trying to solve the problem of humans and businesses doing repetitive tasks by replacing it with software that can automate and streamline those processes. This allows people to focus more on other difficult tasks and boosts productivity within the company.

UiPath appeals to customers across a wide variety of industries as their software is capable of a lot of different things. On UiPath's website under "solutions" they break it down by industry, department, and technology. The industries they serve consist of banking & financial services, customer experience, healthcare, high tech, insurance, life sciences, public sectors, manufacturing, retail, and telecom. If you take just health care and banking from the industries they serve, both of them combined have almost a $3 trillion market size. A market size like this provides UiPath with endless opportunities and they serve many more industries outside of just banking and healthcare.

After doing some research it was found that Automation Anywhere is the biggest competitor of UiPath. When looking at the solutions and technologies that both companies have to offer UiPath had quite a few things to offer that its competitor did not. The first thing and biggest thing was that Uipath offers advanced document understanding solutions to extract and process information from unstructured documents using their AI technology. They also have "Automation Hub" that allows organizations to manage and prioritize their automation pipeline to track ROI. UiPath offers task mining that analyzes users day to day interactions to identify automation opportunities in the user's processes. They have more advanced AI solutions compared to the competitor Automation Anywhere. UiPath also serves more industries and offers more technology solutions than Automation Anywhere. 

On the website of UiPath, they dive into the technologies that they use to make things possible and shed some light on what goes into it. Looking at Intelligent Process Automation (IPA), they create IPA solutions by using Ai to boost the power of their RPA technology in three ways. It is based on "computer vision, unattended robotics, and integration with third-party cognitive services from Google, IBM, Microsoft, and ABBYY. This will allow them to offer more natural language processing and machine learning services in their future releases. UiPAth claims that they are "the only RPA tool that applies AI in the computer/Machine Vision field - solving a wide variety of problems". UiPath uses its AI technology to offer process mining, once it learns enough it can take over and automate certain processes for you. The company has advanced RPA technology that makes a lot of what they do possible and they can also offer services at a lower cost because of it. Another thing that was interesting was their OCR technology, they have built-in OCR engines that can read information from documents and screens.

## Landscape
UiPath is in the global software industry with a focus in creating robotic process automation (RPA) Software for companies around the world. 

Software has advanced exponentially in the past 10 years and there has been many new developments come to light. When conducting my research I found an article published by Linkedin that dives into six of the biggest changes in the field of software the past decade. The first big developemnt was cloud computing, cloud computing has changed the way a lot of businesses ioperate and how we as consumers use the internent as well. The second one was artifical intelligence and Machine Learning, this is another thing that has grown exponentially. AI has become apart of of our everyday lives and many use it to help with their jobs or schooling now. Mobile development is the third thing on Linkedin's list, many software companies design things specifically for mobile nowaday because it has become so dominant in the technology space where it was not like that 10 years ago. If you look at what apple has done with IOS compared to 10 years ago it is like a whole new phone at this point and the technologies have changed pretty drastically. 

Uipath is in the field of software so they sit in a field with some pretty big named and well established brands. Some of these big companies are Microsoft, Apple, Adobe, Intel, Amazon, Oracle, Dropbox, IBM, and the list goes on. Software is a saturated market but if you can get into it the possibilites are endless. 

## Results 
UiPath has had quite the business impact since it took off, their RPA technology is set to have a significant economic impact by increasing revenue, reducing expenses for businesses, and enhancing the quality of business. They also plan to have a positive impact on the job market. The cumulative economic impact of UiPath is set to hit $129 billion by 2025. 44% will come from expense reduction, 41% will come from revenue improvements and 15% will come from quality improvements. 68% of organizations that have adopted UiPath and provided RPA training programs to staff gave employee's a post-training pay raise. This infromation was pulled from UiPaths Website: https://www.uipath.com/hubfs/idceconomicimpact.pdf.

In the field of software, a company can measure its success based on how many licenses they are granting and the overall customer satisfaction. Software has performance metrics that they can use to measure the success and overall user satisfaction, factors that could be looked at are load time, error rates, user-friendliness, etc... Software companies also measure the customer lifetime value(CLV) this is another indicator that ties in with customer satisfaction. If businesses aren't renewing their licenses and have a high turnover rate with your product chances are something is wrong with it and it is lacking somewhere.

When conducting research for a prior question in this assignment I found that UiPath is outperforming and number one compared to its direct competitors within its field, the next company was Automation Anywhere. The technology that UiPath gives it an edge over its competitors and has allowed it to become number one in RPA software.

## Recommendations
It is hard to advise UiPath on what they should do because they're already doing things you would think could only live in your imagination. I guess one thing that would be cool is if they could advance their process and task-mining technology to learn more advanced tasks. I use Premiere Pro for video editing and it would be cool if it could learn my specific style of editing for videos and the process I go through. After learning it would be cool to share with my co-workers who have no experience in that area so that they could still complete the tasks if I was sick or if I left the marketing department(I did leave). It would also be cool for graphic design to speed up the process even when I am doing my basic things and getting started on a design.

Offering this innovative service to their already existing software could give them the ability to expand into new markets. Expanding into new markets and becoming usable by more industries would increase their profits as well as their market share in the software industry. It could also open up new partnerships with companies like Adobe. 

It would utilize their already existing IPA and RPA technologies that utilize Ai to learn from a human user by watching their computer and tracking keyboard and mouse movements while completing a task. 

These technologies would be necessary because I am using some of their already existing software just making it have more advanced capabilities so that it can expand into more advanced and time-consuming tasks. 